Message Two



Christ as the Emancipator and as the One Who Makes Us More Than Conquerors



Scripture Reading: Rom. 8:2, 31-39


Rom. 8:2  For the law of the Spirit of life has freed me in Christ Jesus from the law of sin and of death.
Rom. 8:31  What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who [can be] against us?
Rom. 8:32  Indeed, He who did not spare His own Son, but delivered Him up for us all, how shall He not also with Him freely give us all things?
Rom. 8:33  Who shall bring a charge against God's chosen ones? [It] [is] God who justifies.
Rom. 8:34  Who is he who condemns? [It] [is] Christ Jesus who died and, rather, who was raised, who is also at the right hand of God, who also intercedes for us.
Rom. 8:35  Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation or anguish or persecution or famine or nakedness or peril or sword?
Rom. 8:36  As it is written, "For Your sake we are being put to death all day long; we have been accounted as sheep for slaughter."
Rom. 8:37  But in all these things we more than conquer through Him who loved us.
Rom. 8:38  For I am persuaded that neither death nor life nor angels nor principalities nor things present nor things to come nor powers
Rom. 8:39  Nor height nor depth nor any other creature will be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord.

1. We can experience, enjoy, and express Christ as our Eman cipator by the law of the Spirit of life-Rom. 8:2:


Rom. 8:2  For the law of the Spirit of life has freed me in Christ Jesus from the law of sin and of death.

A. The enjoyment of the law of the Spirit of life in Romans 8 ushers us into the reality of the Body of Christ in Romans 12; this law operates within us as we live in the Body and for the Body-8:2, 28-29; 12:1-2, 11; Phil. 1:19.


Rom. 8:2  For the law of the Spirit of life has freed me in Christ Jesus from the law of sin and of death.
Rom. 8:28  And we know that all things work together for good to those who love God, to those who are called according to [His] purpose.
Rom. 8:29  Because those whom He foreknew, He also predestinated [to be] conformed to the image of His Son, that He might be the Firstborn among many brothers;
Rom. 12:1  I exhort you therefore, brothers, through the compassions of God to present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, well pleasing to God, [which is] your reasonable service.
Rom. 12:2  And do not be fashioned according to this age, but be transformed by the renewing of the mind that you may prove what the will of God is, that which is good and well pleasing and perfect.
Rom. 12:11  Do not be slothful in zeal, [but] be burning in spirit, serving the Lord.
Phil. 1:19  For I know that for me this will turn out to salvation through your petition and [the] bountiful supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ,

B. Every life has a law and even is a law; God's life is the highest life, and the law of this life is the highest law - cf. John 1:4-5; 12:24; 14:6a; 10:10b; 1 Cor. 15:45b.


John 1:4  In Him was life, and the life was the light of men.
John 1:5  And the light shines in the darkness, and the darkness did not overcome it.
John 12:24  Truly, truly, I say to you, Unless the grain of wheat falls into the ground and dies, it abides alone; but if it dies, it bears much fruit.
John 14:6  Jesus said to him, I am the way and the reality and the life; no one comes to the Father except through Me.
John 10:10  The thief does not come except to steal and kill and destroy; I have come that they may have life and may have [it] abundantly.
1 Cor. 15:45  So also it is written, "The first man, Adam, became a living soul"; the last Adam [became] a life-giving Spirit.

C. The Triune God has been processed through incarnation, cruci fixion, resurrection, and ascension to become the law of the Spirit of life installed in our spirit as a "scientific" law, an automatic principle; this is one of the biggest discoveries, even recoveries, in God's economy-Rom. 8:2-3, 11, 34, 16.


Rom. 8:2  For the law of the Spirit of life has freed me in Christ Jesus from the law of sin and of death.
Rom. 8:3  For that which the law could not do, in that it was weak through the flesh, God, sending His own Son in the likeness of the flesh of sin and concerning sin, condemned sin in the flesh,
Rom. 8:11  And if the Spirit of the One who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, He who raised Christ from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through His Spirit who indwells you.
Rom. 8:34  Who is he who condemns? [It] [is] Christ Jesus who died and, rather, who was raised, who is also at the right hand of God, who also intercedes for us.
Rom. 8:16  The Spirit Himself witnesses with our spirit that we are children of God.

D. The law of the Spirit of life is the spontaneous power of the divine life; it is the natural characteristic and the innate, automatic function of the divine life-v. 2; Phil. 2:13; Ezek. 36:26-27; Prov. 30:18-19; Isa. 40:28-31; Heb. 12:2a; Phil. 4:13; Col. 1:28-29.


Rom. 8:2  For the law of the Spirit of life has freed me in Christ Jesus from the law of sin and of death.
Phil. 2:13  For it is God who operates in you both the willing and the working for [His] good pleasure.
Ezek. 36:26  I will also give you a new heart, and a new spirit I will put within you; and I will take away the heart of stone out of your flesh, and I will give you a heart of flesh.
Ezek. 36:27  And I will put My Spirit within you and cause you to walk in My statutes, and My ordinances you shall keep and do.
Prov. 30:18  There are three things which are too wonderful for me, / Indeed four which I do not know:
Prov. 30:19  The way of an eagle in the sky, / The way of a serpent upon a rock, / The way of a ship in the midst of the sea, / And the way of a man with a maiden.
Isa. 40:28  Do you not know, / Or have you not heard, / That the eternal God, Jehovah, / The Creator of the ends of the earth, / Does not faint and does not become weary? / There is no searching out of His understanding.
Isa. 40:29  He gives power to the faint, / And to those who have no vigor He multiplies strength.
Isa. 40:30  Although youths will faint and become weary, / And young men will collapse exhausted;
Isa. 40:31  Yet those who wait on Jehovah will renew [their] strength; / They will mount up with wings like eagles; / They will run and will not become weary; / They will walk and will not faint.
Heb. 12:2  Looking away unto Jesus, the Author and Perfecter of our faith, who for the joy set before Him endured the cross, despising the shame, and has sat down on the right hand of the throne of God.
Phil. 4:13  I am able to do all things in Him who empowers me.
Col. 1:28  Whom we announce, admonishing every man and teaching every man in all wisdom that we may present every man full-grown in Christ;
Col. 1:29  For which also I labor, struggling according to His operation which operates in me in power.

E. While we remain in the touch with the Lord, staying in contact with the Lord, the law of the Spirit of life works automatically, spontaneously, and effortlessly:



1. We need to cease from our own struggling and striving-Gal. 2:20a; Rom. 7:15-20:


Gal. 2:20  I am crucified with Christ; and [it is] no longer I [who] live, but [it is] Christ [who] lives in me; and the [life] which I now live in the flesh I live in faith, the [faith] of the Son of God, who loved me and gave Himself up for me.
Rom. 7:15  For what I work out, I do not acknowledge; for what I will, this I do not practice; but what I hate, this I do.
Rom. 7:16  But if what I do not will, this I do, I agree with the law that it is good.
Rom. 7:17  Now then [it is] no longer I [that] work it out but sin that dwells in me.
Rom. 7:18  For I know that in me, that is, in my flesh, nothing good dwells; for to will is present with me, but to work out the good is not.
Rom. 7:19  For I do not do the good which I will; but the evil which I do not will, this I practice.
Rom. 7:20  But if what I do not will, this I do, [it is] no longer I [that] work it out but sin that dwells in me.

a. If we have not seen that sin is a law and that our will can never overcome this law, we are trapped in Romans 7; we will never arrive at Romans 8.



b. Paul willed again and again, but the result was only repeated failure; the best that a man can do is to make resolutions-7:18.


Rom. 7:18  For I know that in me, that is, in my flesh, nothing good dwells; for to will is present with me, but to work out the good is not.

c. When sin is dormant within us, it is merely sin, but when it is aroused in us by our willing to do the good, it becomes "the evil""I find then the law, with me who wills to do the good, because the evil is present with me"-v. 21.


Rom. 7:21  I find then the law, with me who wills to do the good, because the evil is present with me.

d. Instead of willing, we should set our mind on the spirit and walk according to the spirit-8:6, 4; Phil. 2:13.


Rom. 8:6  For the mind set on the flesh is death, but the mind set on the spirit is life and peace.
Rom. 8:4  That the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us, who do not walk according to the flesh but according to the spirit.
Phil. 2:13  For it is God who operates in you both the willing and the working for [His] good pleasure.

2. We need to cooperate with the indwelling, installed, auto- matic, and inner operating God by prayer and by having a spirit of dependence, thus maintaining our fellowship with the Lord of life and the Lord of work-1 Thes. 5:17; Eph. 6:17-18,


1 Thes. 5:17  Unceasingly pray,
Eph. 6:17  And receive the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which [Spirit] is the word of God,
Eph. 6:18  By means of all prayer and petition, praying at every time in spirit and watching unto this in all perseverance and petition concerning all the saints,

3. We need to care for the sense of life in our spirit to remain in the fellowship of life, the flowing of the divine life, for the operation of the law of the Spirit of life-Rom. 8:6, 16; 1 John 1:2-3, 6-7.


Rom. 8:6  For the mind set on the flesh is death, but the mind set on the spirit is life and peace.
Rom. 8:16  The Spirit Himself witnesses with our spirit that we are children of God.
1 John 1:2  (And the life was manifested, and we have seen and testify and report to you the eternal life, which was with the Father and was manifested to us);
1 John 1:3  That which we have seen and heard we report also to you that you also may have fellowship with us, and indeed our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son Jesus Christ.
1 John 1:6  If we say that we have fellowship with Him and yet walk in the darkness, we lie and are not practicing the truth;
1 John 1:7  But if we walk in the light as He is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus His Son cleanses us from every sin.

F. The whole key to our living and serving in the Body of Christ is the law of the Spirit of life, which operates within us:



1. The law of the Spirit of life makes us God in life, nature, and expression but not in the Godhead, shaping us into the image of the firstborn Son of God so that we may become His corpo- rate expression-Rom. 8:2, 29.


Rom. 8:2  For the law of the Spirit of life has freed me in Christ Jesus from the law of sin and of death.
Rom. 8:29  Because those whom He foreknew, He also predestinated [to be] conformed to the image of His Son, that He might be the Firstborn among many brothers;

2. The law of the Spirit of life constitutes us the members of the Body of Christ with all kinds of functions-Eph. 4:11-12, 16.


Eph. 4:11  And He Himself gave some as apostles and some as prophets and some as evangelists and some as shepherds and teachers,
Eph. 4:12  For the perfecting of the saints unto the work of the ministry, unto the building up of the Body of Christ,
Eph. 4:16  Out from whom all the Body, being joined together and being knit together through every joint of the rich supply and [through] the operation in the measure of each one part, causes the growth of the Body unto the building up of itself in love.

G. We can cooperate with the inner operating Triune God as the law of the Spirit of life by "switching on" this law in the following ways:



1. We need to walk according to the spirit-live in the spirit- Rom. 8:4; cf. Psa. 23:3:


Rom. 8:4  That the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us, who do not walk according to the flesh but according to the spirit.
Psa. 23:3  He restores my soul; / He guides me on the paths of righteousness / For His name's sake.

a. The secret of experiencing Christ is to be in the One who empowers us to do all things, and the secret of being in Him is to be in our spirit-Phil. 4:12-13, 23.


Phil. 4:12  I know also how to be abased, and I know how to abound; in everything and in all things I have learned the secret both to be filled and to hunger, both to abound and to lack.
Phil. 4:13  I am able to do all things in Him who empowers me.
Phil. 4:23  The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit.

b. The practicality of living in Christ is for us to live in our spirit; in the book of Romans the apostle Paul stresses that whatever we are (2:29; 8:5-6, 9), whatever we have (vv. 10, 16), and whatever we do toward God (1:9; 7:6; 8:4, 13; 12:11) must be in our spirit:



1) In order to live in our spirit, we need to take time to be hold the Lord, praying to fellowship with Jesus, to bathe in His countenance, to be saturated with His beauty, and to radiate His excellence-2 Cor. 3:16, 18; Psa. 27:4; cf. Matt. 6:6; 14:23; Exo. 33:11a; 34:4, footnote 2.


2 Cor. 3:16  But whenever [their][ heart] turns to the Lord, the veil is taken away.
2 Cor. 3:18  But we all with unveiled face, beholding and reflecting like a mirror the glory of the Lord, are being transformed into the same image from glory to glory, even as from the Lord Spirit.
Psa. 27:4  One thing I have asked from Jehovah; / That do I seek: / To dwell in the house of Jehovah / All the days of my life, / To behold the beauty of Jehovah, / And to inquire in His temple.
Matt. 6:6  But you, when you pray, enter into your private room, and shut your door and pray to your Father who is in secret; and your Father who sees in secret will repay you.
Matt. 14:23  And after He sent the crowds away, He went up to the mountain privately to pray. And when night fell, He was there alone.
Exo. 33:11  And Jehovah would speak to Moses face to face, just as a man speaks to his companion. And Moses would return to the camp, but his attendant Joshua the son of Nun, a young man, would not depart out of the tent.
Exo. 34:4  So Moses cut two tablets of stone like the first ones. Then Moses rose up early in the morning and went up to Mount Sinai, just as Jehovah had commanded him; and he took two tablets of stone in his hand.

2) In order to live in our spirit, we need to pray without ceasing-1 Thes. 5:17; cf. John 20:22; Lam. 3:55-56; Rom. 10:12-13.


1 Thes. 5:17  Unceasingly pray,
John 20:22  And when He had said this, He breathed into [them] and said to them, Receive the Holy Spirit.
Lam. 3:55  I called upon Your name, O Jehovah, / From the lowest pit.
Lam. 3:56  You have heard my voice; do not hide / Your ear at my breathing, at my cry.
Rom. 10:12  For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek, for the same Lord [is] [Lord] of all [and] rich to all who call upon Him;
Rom. 10:13  For "whoever calls upon the name of the Lord shall be saved."

3) In order to live in our spirit, we need to remain in the fellowship of the divine life to walk in the divine light- 1 John 1:2-3, 6-7.


1 John 1:2  (And the life was manifested, and we have seen and testify and report to you the eternal life, which was with the Father and was manifested to us);
1 John 1:3  That which we have seen and heard we report also to you that you also may have fellowship with us, and indeed our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son Jesus Christ.
1 John 1:6  If we say that we have fellowship with Him and yet walk in the darkness, we lie and are not practicing the truth;
1 John 1:7  But if we walk in the light as He is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus His Son cleanses us from every sin.

2. We can mind the things of the Spirit-setting our mind on the spirit-Rom. 8:5-6:


Rom. 8:5  For those who are according to the flesh mind the things of the flesh; but those who are according to the spirit, the things of the Spirit.
Rom. 8:6  For the mind set on the flesh is death, but the mind set on the spirit is life and peace.

a. We need to take heed to our spirit, paying attention to the sense of our spirit, in order to not grieve the Spirit and not quench the Spirit-Mal. 2:15-16; Eph. 4:30; 1 Thes. 5:19.


Mal. 2:15  But did He not make [them] one? And the remnant of the Spirit was His. And why the one? He sought the seed of God. Take heed then to your spirit, and let no one be treacherous to the wife of his youth.
Mal. 2:16  For I hate divorce, says Jehovah the God of Israel; and he [who does it] behaves in violence, says Jehovah of hosts. Take heed then to your spirit, and do not be treacherous.
Eph. 4:30  And do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God, in whom you were sealed unto the day of redemption.
1 Thes. 5:19  Do not quench the Spirit;

b. We can set our mind on the spirit by setting our mind on God's words, which are spirit and life John 6:63; Isa. 55:8-11.


1 Thes. 5:11  Therefore comfort one another, and build up each one the other, even as you also do.

c. To set our mind on the spirit, to mind the things of the Spirit, is also to be one with the Lord to care for the church with all the saints in the inward parts of Christ Jesus- Phil. 2:21; 1:8.


Phil. 2:21  For all seek their own things, not the things of Christ Jesus.
Phil. 1:8  For God is my witness how I long after you all in the inward parts of Christ Jesus.

3. We can put to death by the Spirit the practices of our body- Rom. 8:13; Zech. 4:6; Gal. 5:16:


Rom. 8:13  For if you live according to the flesh, you must die, but if by the Spirit you put to death the practices of the body, you will live.
Zech. 4:6  And he answered and spoke to me, saying, This is the word of Jehovah to Zerubbabel, saying, Not by might nor by power, but by My Spirit, says Jehovah of hosts.
Gal. 5:16  But I say, Walk by the Spirit and you shall by no means fulfill the lust of the flesh.

a. We must allow the Spirit to inhabit and reside in our inward being-Rom. 8:9, 11.


Rom. 8:9  But you are not in the flesh, but in the spirit, if indeed the Spirit of God dwells in you. Yet if anyone does not have the Spirit of Christ, he is not of Him.
Rom. 8:11  And if the Spirit of the One who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, He who raised Christ from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through His Spirit who indwells you.

b. We need to remain in the church life, where the God of peace crushes Satan under our feet-16:20; 12:1-2, 11.


Rom. 16:20  Now the God of peace will crush Satan under your feet shortly. The grace of our Lord Jesus be with you.
Rom. 12:1  I exhort you therefore, brothers, through the compassions of God to present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, well pleasing to God, [which is] your reasonable service.
Rom. 12:2  And do not be fashioned according to this age, but be transformed by the renewing of the mind that you may prove what the will of God is, that which is good and well pleasing and perfect.
Rom. 12:11  Do not be slothful in zeal, [but] be burning in spirit, serving the Lord.

4. We can be led by the Spirit as the sons of God-8:14:


Rom. 8:14  For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, these are sons of God.

a. To be led by the Spirit is to take care of the inner anoint- ing, the moving and working of the indwelling compound Spirit-1 John 2:20, 27.


1 John 2:20  And you have an anointing from the Holy One, and all of you know.
1 John 2:27  And as for you, the anointing which you have received from Him abides in you, and you have no need that anyone teach you; but as His anointing teaches you concerning all things and is true and is not a lie, and even as it has taught you, abide in Him.

b. To be led by the Spirit is to care for the rest in our spirit, being led as a captive in Christ's triumphal procession- 2 Cor. 2:12-14; 7:5-6.


2 Cor. 2:12  Furthermore, when I came to Troas for the gospel of Christ and a door was open to me in the Lord,
2 Cor. 2:13  I had no rest in my spirit, for I did not find Titus my brother; but taking leave of them, I went forth into Macedonia.
2 Cor. 2:14  But thanks be to God, who always leads us in triumph in the Christ and manifests the savor of the knowledge of Him through us in every place.
2 Sam. 7:5  Go and say to My servant David, Thus says Jehovah, Is it you who will build Me a house for Me to dwell in?
2 Sam. 7:6  For I have not dwelt in a house, since the day I brought the children of Israel up out of Egypt to this day; but I went about in a tent and in a tabernacle.

5. We can cry to the Father in the spirit of sonship-Rom. 8:15; Gal. 4:6:


Rom. 8:15  For you have not received a spirit of slavery [bringing you] into fear again, but you have received a spirit of sonship in which we cry, Abba, Father!
Gal. 4:6  And because you are sons, God has sent forth the Spirit of His Son into our hearts, crying, Abba, Father!

a. When we cry "Abba, Father!" (Rom. 8:15), "the Spirit Him- self witnesses with our spirit that we are children of God" (ν. 16),



b. To cry "Abba, Father!" expresses the sweetness of our inti- mate relationship with our God-cf. Matt. 18:3.


Matt. 18:3  And said, Truly I say to you, Unless you turn and become like little children, you shall by no means enter into the kingdom of the heavens.

6. We can groan in the interceding Spirit for our full sonship, which is the redemption of our body-Rom. 8:23, 26-27:


Rom. 8:23  And not only [so,] but we ourselves also, who have the firstfruits of the Spirit, even we ourselves groan in ourselves, eagerly awaiting sonship, the redemption of our body.
Rom. 8:26  Moreover, in like manner the Spirit also joins in to help [us] in our weakness, for we do not know for what we should pray as is fitting, but the Spirit Himself intercedes for [us] with groanings which cannot be uttered.
Rom. 8:27  But He who searches the hearts knows what the mind of the Spirit is, because He intercedes for the saints according to God.

a. In our groaning the Spirit groans also, interceding for us.



b. The interceding Spirit prays for us so that we may be con- formed to the image of Christ as the firstborn Son of God- vv. 28-29.


Rom. 8:28  And we know that all things work together for good to those who love God, to those who are called according to [His] purpose.
Rom. 8:29  Because those whom He foreknew, He also predestinated [to be] conformed to the image of His Son, that He might be the Firstborn among many brothers;

II. We can experience, enjoy, and express Christ as the One who makes us more than conquerors-v. 37:


Rom. 8:37  But in all these things we more than conquer through Him who loved us.

A. We can love God and be constrained, restricted, motivated, com- pelled, impelled, and propelled by the love of Christ to more than conquer in all things-vv. 31-39:


Rom. 8:31  What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who [can be] against us?
Rom. 8:32  Indeed, He who did not spare His own Son, but delivered Him up for us all, how shall He not also with Him freely give us all things?
Rom. 8:33  Who shall bring a charge against God's chosen ones? [It] [is] God who justifies.
Rom. 8:34  Who is he who condemns? [It] [is] Christ Jesus who died and, rather, who was raised, who is also at the right hand of God, who also intercedes for us.
Rom. 8:35  Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation or anguish or persecution or famine or nakedness or peril or sword?
Rom. 8:36  As it is written, "For Your sake we are being put to death all day long; we have been accounted as sheep for slaughter."
Rom. 8:37  But in all these things we more than conquer through Him who loved us.
Rom. 8:38  For I am persuaded that neither death nor life nor angels nor principalities nor things present nor things to come nor powers
Rom. 8:39  Nor height nor depth nor any other creature will be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord.

1. By loving God, we participate in all the riches contained in God-1 Cor. 2:9-10; cf. 2 Tim. 3:2-4.


1 Cor. 2:9  But as it is written, "Things which eye has not seen and ear has not heard and [which] have not come up in man's heart; things which God has prepared for those who love Him."
1 Cor. 2:10  But to us God has revealed [them] through the Spirit, for the Spirit searches all things, even the depths of God.
2 Tim. 3:2  For men will be lovers of self, lovers of money, boasters, arrogant, revilers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy,
2 Tim. 3:3  Without natural affection, implacable, slanderers, without self-control, savage, not lovers of good,
2 Tim. 3:4  Traitors, reckless, blinded with pride, lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God,

2. We need to be constrained by the love of Christ to love God and the saints with Christ as our love-2 Cor. 5:14.


2 Cor. 5:14  For the love of Christ constrains us because we have judged this, that One died for all, therefore all died;

B. "If God is for us, who can be against us?" Rom. 8:31; Jer. 31:31-34; Heb. 8:8-10:


2 Cor. 5:34  No such verse in 2 Cor. 5
Heb. 8:8  For finding fault with them He says, "Behold, the days are coming, says the Lord, and I will consummate a new covenant upon the house of Israel and upon the house of Judah,
Heb. 8:9  Not according to the covenant which I made with their fathers in the day when I took them by their hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt, because they did not continue in My covenant, and I disregarded them, says the Lord.
Heb. 8:10  For this is the covenant which I will covenant with the house of Israel after those days, says the Lord: I will impart My laws into their mind, and on their hearts I will inscribe them; and I will be God to them, and they will be a people to Me.

1. "I will make an eternal covenant with them that I will not turn away from them, to do them good; and I will put My fear into their hearts, so that they will not turn away from Me. And I will rejoice over them to do them good, and I will plant them in this land in faithfulness with all My heart and with all My soul" Jer. 32:40-41.


Heb. 8:41  No such verse in Heb. 8

2. This eternal covenant is the new covenant; it is by this cov- enant that God will not turn away from us and will plant us in Christ, our good land, and Christ in all His aspects will be bought by us, that is, gained by us through our paying the price to forget the things that are behind and pursue Christ- vv. 40-44; Phil. 3:8-14.


Heb. 8:40  No such verse in Heb. 8
Heb. 8:41  No such verse in Heb. 8
Heb. 8:42  No such verse in Heb. 8
Heb. 8:43  No such verse in Heb. 8
Heb. 8:44  No such verse in Heb. 8
Phil. 3:8  But moreover I also count all things to be loss on account of the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, on account of whom I have suffered the loss of all things and count [them] as refuse that I may gain Christ
Phil. 3:9  And be found in Him, not having my own righteousness which is out of the law, but that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness which is out of God [and] based on faith,
Phil. 3:10  To know Him and the power of His resurrection and the fellowship of His sufferings, being conformed to His death,
Phil. 3:11  If perhaps I may attain to the out-resurrection from the dead.
Phil. 3:12  Not that I have already obtained or am already perfected, but I pursue, if even I may lay hold of that for which I also have been laid hold of by Christ Jesus.
Phil. 3:13  Brothers, I do not account of myself to have laid hold; but one thing [I do:] Forgetting the things which are behind and stretching forward to the things which are before,
Phil. 3:14  I pursue toward the goal for the prize to which God in Christ Jesus has called [me] upward.

C. God freely gives us all things with Christ; every thing, every per son, and every situation are ours, the ones who love Him, for our perfecting-Rom. 8:28, 32; 1 Cor. 3:21-22.


Rom. 8:28  And we know that all things work together for good to those who love God, to those who are called according to [His] purpose.
Rom. 8:32  Indeed, He who did not spare His own Son, but delivered Him up for us all, how shall He not also with Him freely give us all things?
1 Cor. 3:21  So then let no one boast in men, for all things are yours,
1 Cor. 3:22  Whether Paul or Apollos or Cephas or the world or life or death or things present or things to come; all are yours,

D. Christ, having died for us and having been raised, is interceding for us at the right hand of God-Rom. 8:34:


Rom. 8:34  Who is he who condemns? [It] [is] Christ Jesus who died and, rather, who was raised, who is also at the right hand of God, who also intercedes for us.

1. In verse 34 Christ is at the right hand of God, yet in verse 10 Christ is now in us, in our spirit-2 Tim. 4:22; cf. John 1:51; Gen. 28:11-22.


2 Tim. 4:22  The Lord be with your spirit. Grace be with you.
John 1:51  And He said to him, Truly, truly, I say to you, You shall see heaven opened and the angels of God ascending and descending on the Son of Man.
Gen. 28:11  And he came to a certain place and spent the night there, because the sun had set. And he took [one] of the stones of the place and put [it] under his head, and he lay down in that place.
Gen. 28:12  And he dreamed that there was a ladder set up on the earth, and its top reached to heaven; and there the angels of God were ascending and descending on it.
Gen. 28:13  And there was Jehovah, standing above it; and He said, I am Jehovah, the God of Abraham your father and the God of Isaac. The land on which you lie, I will give to you and to your seed.
Gen. 28:14  And your seed will be as the dust of the earth, and you will spread abroad to the west and to the east and to the north and to the south, and in you and in your seed will all the families of the earth be blessed.
Gen. 28:15  And, behold, I am with you and will keep you wherever you go and will cause you to return to this land, for I will not leave you until I have done what I have promised you.
Gen. 28:16  And Jacob awoke from his sleep and said, Surely Jehovah is in this place, and I did not know [it.]
Gen. 28:17  And he was afraid and said, How awesome is this place! This is none other than the house of God, and this is the gate of heaven.
Gen. 28:18  And Jacob rose up early in the morning and took the stone that he had put under his head, and he set it up as a pillar and poured oil on top of it.
Gen. 28:19  And he called the name of that place Bethel, but the name of the city was Luz previously.
Gen. 28:20  And Jacob vowed a vow, saying, If God will be with me and will keep me in this way that I go and will give me bread to eat and garments to put on,
Gen. 28:21  So that I return to my father's house in peace, then Jehovah will be my God,
Gen. 28:22  And this stone, which I have set up as a pillar, will be God's house; and of all that You give me I will surely give one tenth to You.

2. In Romans 8:34 it is Christ who intercedes for us, yet in verse 26 it is the Spirit who intercedes for us:



a. These are not two Intercessors but one, the Lord Spirit- 2 Cor. 3:18.


2 Cor. 3:18  But we all with unveiled face, beholding and reflecting like a mirror the glory of the Lord, are being transformed into the same image from glory to glory, even as from the Lord Spirit.

b. He is interceding for us at two ends: at one end it is the Spirit in us, probably initiating the intercession for us; at the other end it is the Lord Christ at the right hand of God, probably completing the intercession for us, which must be mainly that we will be conformed to His image and brought into His glory.



E. No suffering, including tribulation, anguish, persecution, famine, nakedness, peril, and sword, shall separate us from the love of Christ-Rom. 8:35.


Rom. 8:35  Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation or anguish or persecution or famine or nakedness or peril or sword?

F. In all the sufferings we more than conquer through Christ who loved us-v. 37:


Rom. 8:37  But in all these things we more than conquer through Him who loved us.

1. Because of God's unchanging love for us and the fact that Christ has accomplished everything on our behalf, neither tribulation nor persecution can suppress or defeat us; rather, in all these things we more than conquer through Him who loved us.



2. The love of God is the source of His eternal salvation; this love, from which nothing can separate us, is in Christ and has been poured out in our hearts through the Holy Spirit- vv. 38-39; 5:5; Jer 31:3.


Rom. 8:38  For I am persuaded that neither death nor life nor angels nor principalities nor things present nor things to come nor powers
Rom. 8:39  Nor height nor depth nor any other creature will be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord.
Rom. 5:5  And hope does not put [us] to shame, because the love of God has been poured out in our hearts through the Holy Spirit, who has been given to us.
Jer. 31:3  Jehovah appeared to me from afar, [saying,] / Indeed I have loved you with an eternal love; / Therefore I have drawn you with lovingkindness.

3. In God's salvation the love of God has become the love of Christ, which does many marvelous things for us through the grace of Christ until God's complete salvation is accom- plished in us-Rom. 8:35; Hosea 11:4.


Rom. 8:35  Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation or anguish or persecution or famine or nakedness or peril or sword?
Hosea 11:4  I drew them with cords of a man, / With bands of love; / And I was to them like those / Who lift off the yoke on their jaws; / And I gently caused them to eat.

4. These marvelous things provoke God's enemy to attack us with all kinds of calamities, but because of our response to the love of God in Christ, these attacks have become benefits to us; hence, we more than conquer in all our afflictions and calamities - Rom. 8:35-37, 28.


Rom. 8:35  Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation or anguish or persecution or famine or nakedness or peril or sword?
Rom. 8:36  As it is written, "For Your sake we are being put to death all day long; we have been accounted as sheep for slaughter."
Rom. 8:37  But in all these things we more than conquer through Him who loved us.
Rom. 8:28  And we know that all things work together for good to those who love God, to those who are called according to [His] purpose.

