Message Eight



The Way to Receive, Experience, and Enjoy the All-inclusive Christ as the All-inclusive Life-giving Spirit- the Aggregate of the All-embracing Blessing of the Full Gospel of God



Scripture Reading: Gal. 1:15a, 16a; 2:20; 4:19; 3:14


Gal. 1:15  But when it pleased God, who set me apart from my mother's womb and called me through His grace,
Gal. 1:16  To reveal His Son in me that I might announce Him as the gospel among the Gentiles, immediately I did not confer with flesh and blood,
Gal. 2:20  I am crucified with Christ; and [it is] no longer I [who] live, but [it is] Christ [who] lives in me; and the [life] which I now live in the flesh I live in faith, the [faith] of the Son of God, who loved me and gave Himself up for me.
Gal. 4:19  My children, with whom I travail again in birth until Christ is formed in you,
Gal. 3:14  In order that the blessing of Abraham might come to the Gentiles in Christ Jesus, that we might receive the promise of the Spirit through faith.

I. Galatians reveals that God's plan according to His good pleas- ure is to work Christ Himself into us; the most evil thing, according to Galatians, is to distract people from Christ- Eph. 1:5; Gal. 1:4-17; 2:20; 4:19.


Eph. 1:5  Predestinating us unto sonship through Jesus Christ to Himself, according to the good pleasure of His will,
Gal. 1:4  Who gave Himself for our sins that He might rescue us out of the present evil age according to the will of our God and Father,
Gal. 1:5  To whom be the glory forever and ever. Amen.
Gal. 1:6  I marvel that you are so quickly removing from Him who has called you in the grace of Christ to a different gospel,
Gal. 1:7  Which is not another [gospel,] only there are some who trouble you and desire to pervert the gospel of Christ.
Gal. 1:8  But if even we or an angel out of heaven should announce to you a gospel beyond that which we have announced to you, let him be accursed.
Gal. 1:9  As we have said before, now also I say again, If anyone announces to you a gospel beyond that which you have received, let him be accursed.
Gal. 1:10  For am I now trying to win the assent of men or of God? Or am I seeking to please men? If I were still trying to please men, I would not be a slave of Christ.
Gal. 1:11  For I make known to you, brothers, [concerning] the gospel announced by me, that it is not according to man.
Gal. 1:12  For neither did I receive it from man, nor was I taught [it,] but [I] [received] [it] through a revelation by Jesus Christ.
Gal. 1:13  For you have heard of my manner of life formerly in Judaism, that I persecuted the church of God excessively and ravaged it.
Gal. 1:14  And I advanced in Judaism beyond many contemporaries in my race, being more abundantly a zealot for the traditions of my fathers.
Gal. 1:15  But when it pleased God, who set me apart from my mother's womb and called me through His grace,
Gal. 1:16  To reveal His Son in me that I might announce Him as the gospel among the Gentiles, immediately I did not confer with flesh and blood,
Gal. 1:17  Neither did I go up to Jerusalem to those who were apostles before me, but I went away to Arabia and again returned to Damascus.
Gal. 2:20  I am crucified with Christ; and [it is] no longer I [who] live, but [it is] Christ [who] lives in me; and the [life] which I now live in the flesh I live in faith, the [faith] of the Son of God, who loved me and gave Himself up for me.
Gal. 4:19  My children, with whom I travail again in birth until Christ is formed in you,

II. Galatians presents the Christ who is the threefold seed in humanity for God's dispensing of Himself into the believers of Christ for the fulfillment of His economy-3:16; Gen. 3:15; Gal. 4:4; Luke 8:5a, 11; John 12:24:


Gal. 3:16  But to Abraham were the promises spoken and to his seed. He does not say, And to the seeds, as concerning many, but as concerning one: "And to your seed," who is Christ.
Gen. 3:15  And I will put enmity / Between you and the woman / And between your seed and her seed; / He will bruise you on the head, / But you will bruise him on the heel.
Gal. 4:4  But when the fullness of the time came, God sent forth His Son, born of a woman, born under law,
Luke 8:5  The sower went out to sow his seed. And as he sowed, some [seed] fell beside the way, and it was trampled underfoot, and the birds of heaven devoured it.
Luke 8:11  Now the parable is this: The seed is the word of God.
John 12:24  Truly, truly, I say to you, Unless the grain of wheat falls into the ground and dies, it abides alone; but if it dies, it bears much fruit.

A. Christ as the seed of the woman refers to the incarnated Christ, the complete God becoming a perfect man through the dispensing of Himself into humanity in order to destroy Satan and to save the believers in Christ from sin and death-Gen. 3:15; Isa. 7:14; Matt. 1:16, 20-21, 23; Gal. 4:4; John 1:1, 14; Heb. 2:14; 1 Cor. 15:53-57.


Gen. 3:15  And I will put enmity / Between you and the woman / And between your seed and her seed; / He will bruise you on the head, / But you will bruise him on the heel.
Isa. 7:14  Therefore the Lord Himself will give you a sign: Behold, the virgin will conceive and will bear a son, and she will call his name Immanuel.
Matt. 1:16  And Jacob begot Joseph the husband of Mary, of whom was born Jesus, who is called Christ.
Matt. 1:20  But while he pondered these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take Mary your wife, for that which has been begotten in her is of the Holy Spirit.
Matt. 1:21  And she will bear a son, and you shall call His name Jesus, for [it is] He [who] will save His people from their sins.
Matt. 1:23  "Behold, the virgin shall be with child and shall bear a son, and they shall call His name Emmanuel" (which is translated, God with us).
Gal. 4:4  But when the fullness of the time came, God sent forth His Son, born of a woman, born under law,
John 1:1  In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.
John 1:14  And the Word became flesh and tabernacled among us (and we beheld His glory, glory as of the only Begotten from the Father), full of grace and reality.
Heb. 2:14  Since therefore the children have shared in blood and flesh, He also Himself in like manner partook of the same, that through death He might destroy him who has the might of death, that is, the devil,
1 Cor. 15:53  For this corruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal [must] put on immortality.
1 Cor. 15:54  And when this corruptible will put on incorruption and this mortal will put on immortality, then the word which is written will come to pass, "Death has been swallowed up unto victory."
1 Cor. 15:55  Where, O death, is your victory? Where, O death, is your sting?
1 Cor. 15:56  The sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the law.
1 Cor. 15:57  But thanks be to God who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ.

B. Christ as the seed of Abraham is for the blessing to all the fam- ilies of the earth; the unique seed of Abraham as the last Adam became the life-giving Spirit, who is the blessing of Abraham (the reality of the good land), for the dispensing of Himself into the believers of Christ to make them the corporate seed of Abraham- Gen. 12:2-3, 7; 17:7-8; Gal. 3:14, 16, 29; John 14:17-20; 1 Cor. 15:45b; John 12:24; Isa. 53:10.


Gen. 12:2  And I will make of you a great nation, / And I will bless you / And make your name great; / And you shall be a blessing.
Gen. 12:3  And I will bless those who bless you, / And him who curses you I will curse; / And in you all the families of the earth will be blessed.
Gen. 12:7  And Jehovah appeared to Abram and said, To your seed I will give this land. And there he built an altar to Jehovah who had appeared to him.
Gen. 17:7  And I will establish My covenant between Me and you and your seed after you throughout their generations for an everlasting covenant, to be God to you and to your seed after you.
Gen. 17:8  And I will give to you and to your seed after you the land of your sojournings, all the land of Canaan, for an everlasting possession; and I will be their God.
Gal. 3:14  In order that the blessing of Abraham might come to the Gentiles in Christ Jesus, that we might receive the promise of the Spirit through faith.
Gal. 3:16  But to Abraham were the promises spoken and to his seed. He does not say, And to the seeds, as concerning many, but as concerning one: "And to your seed," who is Christ.
Gal. 3:29  And if you are of Christ, then you are Abraham's seed, heirs according to promise.
John 14:17  [Even] the Spirit of reality, whom the world cannot receive, because it does not behold Him or know [Him; but] you know Him, because He abides with you and shall be in you.
John 14:18  I will not leave you [as] orphans; I am coming to you.
John 14:19  Yet a little while and the world beholds Me no longer, but you behold Me; because I live, you also shall live.
John 14:20  In that day you will know that I am in My Father, and you in Me, and I in you.
1 Cor. 15:45  So also it is written, "The first man, Adam, became a living soul"; the last Adam [became] a life-giving Spirit.
John 12:24  Truly, truly, I say to you, Unless the grain of wheat falls into the ground and dies, it abides alone; but if it dies, it bears much fruit.
Isa. 53:10  But Jehovah was pleased to crush Him, to afflict Him with grief. / When He makes Himself an offering for sin, / He will see a seed, He will extend [His] days, / And the pleasure of Jehovah will prosper in His hand.

C. Christ as the seed of David refers to the resurrected Christ, who carries out God's New Testament economy for the dispensing of the processed Triune God into the members of His Body so that they may share His kingship in His resurrection in the eternal kingdom-2 Sam. 7:12-14a; Matt. 22:42-45; Rom. 1:3; Rev. 22:16; Acts 2:30-31; Matt. 16:16-18; Rev. 20:4, 6:


2 Sam. 7:12  When your days are fulfilled and you sleep with your fathers, I will raise up your seed after you, which will come forth from your body, and I will establish his kingdom.
2 Sam. 7:13  It is he who will build a house for My name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever.
2 Sam. 7:14  I will be his Father, and he will be My son. If he commits iniquity, I will chasten him with the rod of men and with the stripes of the sons of men;
Matt. 22:42  Saying, What do you think concerning the Christ? Whose son is He? They said to Him, David's.
Matt. 22:43  He said to them, How then does David in spirit call Him Lord, saying,
Matt. 22:44  "The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at My right hand until I put Your enemies underneath Your feet"?
Matt. 22:45  If then David calls Him Lord, how is He his son?
Rom. 1:3  Concerning His Son, who came out of the seed of David according to the flesh,
Rev. 22:16  I Jesus have sent My angel to testify to you these things for the churches. I am the Root and the Offspring of David, the bright morning star.
Acts 2:30  Therefore, being a prophet and knowing that God had sworn with an oath to him to seat [One] from the fruit of his loins upon his throne,
Acts 2:31  He, seeing [this] beforehand, spoke concerning the resurrection of the Christ, that neither was He abandoned to Hades, nor did His flesh see corruption.
Matt. 16:16  And Simon Peter answered and said, You are the Christ, the Son of the living God.
Matt. 16:17  And Jesus answered and said to him, Blessed are you, Simon Barjona, because flesh and blood has not revealed [this] to you, but My Father who is in the heavens.
Matt. 16:18  And I also say to you that you are Peter, and upon this rock I will build My church, and the gates of Hades shall not prevail against it.
Rev. 20:4  And I saw thrones, and they sat upon them, and judgment was given to them. And [I saw] the souls of those who had been beheaded because of the testimony of Jesus and because of the word of God, and [of] [those] who had not worshipped the beast nor his image, and had not received the mark on their forehead and on their hand; and they lived and reigned with Christ for a thousand years.
Rev. 20:6  Blessed and holy is he who has part in the first resurrection; over these the second death has no authority, but they will be priests of God and of Christ and will reign with Him for a thousand years.

1. The great mountain, the kingdom of God that fills the whole earth in Daniel 2:34-35, is the corporate threefold seed in humanity, which includes all the corporate Christ-cf. Mark 4:26.


Mark 4:26  And He said, So is the kingdom of God: as if a man cast seed on the earth,

2. Through Christ as the threefold seed in humanity, the enemies are gone, the blessing is here, and we are in the kingdom; this is the revelation of the entire Bible.



III. Galatians reveals the way to receive, experience, and enjoy the all-inclusive Christ as the all-inclusive life-giving Spirit- the aggregate of the all-embracing blessing of the full gospel of God-3:14:


Mark 3:14  And He appointed twelve, whom He also named apostles, so that they might be with Him and that He might send them to preach

A. The way to receive, experience, and enjoy the all-inclusive Christ as the all-inclusive life-giving Spirit is by God's revealing of Christ in us; we live the Christian life according to the Christ whom we have seen-1:16a; Eph. 1:17; Gen. 13:14-18; Eph. 3:8, 19:


Mark 1:16  And passing beside the Sea of Galilee, He saw Simon and Andrew, Simon's brother, casting a net in the sea, for they were fishermen.
Eph. 1:17  That the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give to you a spirit of wisdom and revelation in the full knowledge of Him,
Gen. 13:14  And Jehovah said to Abram after Lot had separated from him, Now lift up your eyes, and look from the place where you are, northward and southward and eastward and westward;
Gen. 13:15  For all the land that you see I will give to you and to your seed forever.
Gen. 13:16  And I will make your seed as the dust of the earth, so that if a man can number the dust of the earth, then your seed can also be numbered.
Gen. 13:17  Rise up; walk through the land according to its length and its breadth, for I will give it to you.
Gen. 13:18  And Abram moved his tent and came and dwelt by the oaks of Mamre, which are in Hebron, and there he built an altar to Jehovah.
Eph. 3:8  To me, less than the least of all saints, was this grace given to announce to the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ as the gospel
Eph. 3:19  And to know the knowledge-surpassing love of Christ, that you may be filled unto all the fullness of God.

1. Nothing is more pleasing to God than the unveiling, the rev- elation, of the living person of the Son of God in us-Gal. 1:15a, 16a; 2 Cor. 3:14-17; 4:3-6.


Gal. 1:15  But when it pleased God, who set me apart from my mother's womb and called me through His grace,
Gal. 1:16  To reveal His Son in me that I might announce Him as the gospel among the Gentiles, immediately I did not confer with flesh and blood,
2 Cor. 3:14  But their thoughts were hardened; for until the present day the same veil remains at the reading of the old covenant, it not being unveiled [to them] that [the veil] is being done away with in Christ.
2 Cor. 3:15  Indeed unto this day, whenever Moses is read, a veil lies on their heart;
2 Cor. 3:16  But whenever [their][ heart] turns to the Lord, the veil is taken away.
2 Cor. 3:17  And the Lord is the Spirit; and where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is freedom.
2 Cor. 4:3  And even if our gospel is veiled, it is veiled in those who are perishing,
2 Cor. 4:4  In whom the god of this age has blinded the thoughts of the unbelievers that the illumination of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God, might not shine [on them.]
2 Cor. 4:5  For we do not preach ourselves but Christ Jesus as Lord, and ourselves as your slaves for Jesus' sake.
2 Cor. 4:6  Because the God who said, Out of darkness light shall shine, is the One who shined in our hearts to illuminate the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ.

2. The more inward, subjective revelation we receive of the Son of God, the more He will live in us; the more He lives in us, the more He will become to us the reality of the all-inclusive land as the blessing of Abraham, the blessing of the all-inclusive life-giving Spirit-Gal. 2:20; 3:14.


Gal. 2:20  I am crucified with Christ; and [it is] no longer I [who] live, but [it is] Christ [who] lives in me; and the [life] which I now live in the flesh I live in faith, the [faith] of the Son of God, who loved me and gave Himself up for me.
Gal. 3:14  In order that the blessing of Abraham might come to the Gentiles in Christ Jesus, that we might receive the promise of the Spirit through faith.

3. If we drop our concepts, turn our heart to the Lord, pay atten- tion to the spirit, and spend time in the Word in a spirit and atmosphere of prayer, Christ will be revealed in us, live in us, and be formed in us-1:15a, 16a; 2:20; 4:19:


Gal. 1:15  But when it pleased God, who set me apart from my mother's womb and called me through His grace,
Gal. 1:16  To reveal His Son in me that I might announce Him as the gospel among the Gentiles, immediately I did not confer with flesh and blood,
Gal. 2:20  I am crucified with Christ; and [it is] no longer I [who] live, but [it is] Christ [who] lives in me; and the [life] which I now live in the flesh I live in faith, the [faith] of the Son of God, who loved me and gave Himself up for me.
Gal. 4:19  My children, with whom I travail again in birth until Christ is formed in you,

a. We must drop our concepts; every concept, whether spir- itual or carnal, is a veil; this inward revelation is in our spirit through our enlightened mind-2 Cor. 3:14-15; 4:4; Eph. 1:17-18; Luke 24:45.


2 Cor. 3:14  But their thoughts were hardened; for until the present day the same veil remains at the reading of the old covenant, it not being unveiled [to them] that [the veil] is being done away with in Christ.
2 Cor. 3:15  Indeed unto this day, whenever Moses is read, a veil lies on their heart;
2 Cor. 4:4  In whom the god of this age has blinded the thoughts of the unbelievers that the illumination of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God, might not shine [on them.]
Eph. 1:17  That the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give to you a spirit of wisdom and revelation in the full knowledge of Him,
Eph. 1:18  The eyes of your heart having been enlightened, that you may know what is the hope of His calling, and what are the riches of the glory of His inheritance in the saints,
Luke 24:45  Then He opened their mind to understand the Scriptures;

b. We must turn our heart to the Lord; the more we turn our heart to the Lord, the less ground the god of this age will have in our life and in our being, and we will be under the shining of the heavenly light to receive the inward revela- tion of this living person-2 Cor. 3:16, 18.


2 Cor. 3:16  But whenever [their][ heart] turns to the Lord, the veil is taken away.
2 Cor. 3:18  But we all with unveiled face, beholding and reflecting like a mirror the glory of the Lord, are being transformed into the same image from glory to glory, even as from the Lord Spirit.

c. We must care for and pay attention to our spirit; it is in our spirit that the Spirit is shining, revealing Christ in us and speaking to us concerning Christ-Eph. 1:17; 3:5; cf. Rev. 1:10; 2:7.


Eph. 1:17  That the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give to you a spirit of wisdom and revelation in the full knowledge of Him,
Eph. 3:5  Which in other generations was not made known to the sons of men, as it has now been revealed to His holy apostles and prophets in spirit,
Rev. 1:10  I was in spirit on the Lord's Day and heard behind me a loud voice like a trumpet,
Rev. 2:7  He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To him who overcomes, to him I will give to eat of the tree of life, which is in the Paradise of God.

d. We must pray-read the Word-Eph. 6:17-18.


Eph. 6:17  And receive the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which [Spirit] is the word of God,
Eph. 6:18  By means of all prayer and petition, praying at every time in spirit and watching unto this in all perseverance and petition concerning all the saints,

4. We need to be full of the revelation of the Son of God and thereby become a new creation with Christ living in us, being formed in us, and being enjoyed by us continually as the all- inclusive Spirit-Gal. 6:14-15.


Gal. 6:14  But far be it from me to boast except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom the world has been crucified to me and I to the world.
Gal. 6:15  For neither is circumcision anything nor uncircumcision, but a new creation [is what matters.]

B. The way to receive, experience, and enjoy the all-inclusive Christ as the all-inclusive life-giving Spirit is by our receiving of Christ out of the hearing of faith-Gal. 3:2:


Gal. 3:2  This only I wish to learn from you, Did you receive the Spirit out of the works of law or out of the hearing of faith?

1. The faith of the believers is Christ entering into them to be their faith, making their spirit a spirit of faith-Heb. 12:2a; Gal. 2:16; Rom. 3:22; 2 Cor. 4:13.


Heb. 12:2  Looking away unto Jesus, the Author and Perfecter of our faith, who for the joy set before Him endured the cross, despising the shame, and has sat down on the right hand of the throne of God.
Gal. 2:16  And knowing that a man is not justified out of works of law, but through faith in Jesus Christ, we also have believed into Christ Jesus that we might be justified out of faith in Christ and not out of the works of law, because out of the works of law no flesh will be justified.
Rom. 3:22  Even the righteousness of God through the faith of Jesus Christ to all those who believe, for there is no distinction;
2 Cor. 4:13  And having the same spirit of faith according to that which is written, "I believed, therefore I spoke," we also believe, therefore we also speak,

2. Faith comes out of the hearing of the word-Rom. 10:17.


Rom. 10:17  So faith [comes] out of hearing, and hearing through the word of Christ.

3. Faith is to believe that God is and we are not; faith always annuls us and reveals Christ to us-Heb. 11:6; Gen. 5:24; John 8:58; Gal. 2:20.


Heb. 11:6  But without faith it is impossible to be well pleasing [to Him,] for he who comes forward to God must believe that He is and that He is a rewarder of those who diligently seek Him.
Gen. 5:24  And Enoch walked with God, and he was not, for God took him.
John 8:58  Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, Before Abraham came into being, I am.
Gal. 2:20  I am crucified with Christ; and [it is] no longer I [who] live, but [it is] Christ [who] lives in me; and the [life] which I now live in the flesh I live in faith, the [faith] of the Son of God, who loved me and gave Himself up for me.

4. The believers are the members of the family, the household, of faith; this faith house is a house that believes in God through His word-6:10.


Gal. 6:10  So then, as we have the opportunity, let us do what is good toward all, but especially toward those of the household of the faith.

C. The way to receive, experience, and enjoy the all-inclusive Christ as the all-inclusive life-giving Spirit is by being born according to the Spirit and by being given the Spirit of God's Son into our hearts-4:29b, 6.


Gal. 4:29  But just as at that time he who was born according to the flesh persecuted him [who was born] according to the Spirit, so also [it is] now.
Gal. 4:6  And because you are sons, God has sent forth the Spirit of His Son into our hearts, crying, Abba, Father!

D. The way to receive, experience, and enjoy the all-inclusive Christ as the all-inclusive life-giving Spirit is by putting on Christ through the baptism that puts us into Christ-3:27.


Gal. 3:27  For as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ.

E. The way to receive, experience, and enjoy the all-inclusive Christ as the all-inclusive life-giving Spirit is by being identified with Him in His death so that it may be no longer we who live but He who lives in us; and the life which we now live in the flesh we live in the faith of Christ-2:20:


Gal. 2:20  I am crucified with Christ; and [it is] no longer I [who] live, but [it is] Christ [who] lives in me; and the [life] which I now live in the flesh I live in faith, the [faith] of the Son of God, who loved me and gave Himself up for me.

1. To be identified with Christ means to be one spirit with Him and even to be one entity with Him-1 Cor. 15:45b; 6:17; Phil. 1:20-21a.


1 Cor. 15:45  So also it is written, "The first man, Adam, became a living soul"; the last Adam [became] a life-giving Spirit.
1 Cor. 6:17  But he who is joined to the Lord is one spirit.
Phil. 1:20  According to my earnest expectation and hope that in nothing I will be put to shame, but with all boldness, as always, even now Christ will be magnified in my body, whether through life or through death.
Phil. 1:21  For to me, to live is Christ and to die is gain.

2. We are identified with Christ in His death in order that it may be no longer we who live but Christ who lives in us-Rom. 6:3-4; Gal. 2:20,


Rom. 6:3  Or are you ignorant that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus have been baptized into His death?
Rom. 6:4  We have been buried therefore with Him through baptism into His death, in order that just as Christ was raised from the dead through the glory of the Father, so also we might walk in newness of life.
Gal. 2:20  I am crucified with Christ; and [it is] no longer I [who] live, but [it is] Christ [who] lives in me; and the [life] which I now live in the flesh I live in faith, the [faith] of the Son of God, who loved me and gave Himself up for me.

3. We live such a life in Christ as our faith; genuine faith is Christ Himself infused into us to become our appreciation of Him as a reaction to His attraction-v. 20b; 2 Cor. 5:14-15; Heb. 12:2a.


Gal. 2:20  I am crucified with Christ; and [it is] no longer I [who] live, but [it is] Christ [who] lives in me; and the [life] which I now live in the flesh I live in faith, the [faith] of the Son of God, who loved me and gave Himself up for me.
2 Cor. 5:14  For the love of Christ constrains us because we have judged this, that One died for all, therefore all died;
2 Cor. 5:15  And He died for all that those who live may no longer live to themselves but to Him who died for them and has been raised.
Heb. 12:2  Looking away unto Jesus, the Author and Perfecter of our faith, who for the joy set before Him endured the cross, despising the shame, and has sat down on the right hand of the throne of God.

F. The way to receive, experience, and enjoy the all-inclusive Christ as the all-inclusive life-giving Spirit is by living and walking by the Spirit-Gal. 5:16, 25.


Gal. 5:16  But I say, Walk by the Spirit and you shall by no means fulfill the lust of the flesh.
Gal. 5:25  If we live by the Spirit, let us also walk by the Spirit.

G. The way to receive, experience, and enjoy the all-inclusive Christ as the all-inclusive life-giving Spirit is by having Christ formed in us through travail-4:19.


Gal. 4:19  My children, with whom I travail again in birth until Christ is formed in you,

H. The way to receive, experience, and enjoy the all-inclusive Christ as the all-inclusive life-giving Spirit is by sowing unto the Spirit with the desire and aim of the Spirit in view, to accomplish what the Spirit desires-6:7-8.


Gal. 6:7  Do not be deceived: God is not mocked; for whatever a man sows, this he will also reap.
Gal. 6:8  For he who sows unto his own flesh will reap corruption of the flesh, but he who sows unto the Spirit will of the Spirit reap eternal life.

I. The way to receive, experience, and enjoy the all-inclusive Christ as the all-inclusive life-giving Spirit is by boasting in the cross of Christ and living a new creation-vv. 14-15.


Gal. 6:14  But far be it from me to boast except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom the world has been crucified to me and I to the world.
Gal. 6:15  For neither is circumcision anything nor uncircumcision, but a new creation [is what matters.]

J. The way to receive, experience, and enjoy the all-inclusive Christ as the all-inclusive life-giving Spirit is by the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ with our spirit-vv. 17-18.


Gal. 6:17  Henceforth let no one trouble me, for I bear in my body the brands of Jesus.
Gal. 6:18  The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit, brothers. Amen.

